[silence]
>> JAY MCKAY: Welcome to
WordPress Accessibility Day.
My name is Jay McKay and I'm the
director of Community Programs
at Knowbility.
Thank you for joining us for our
next session, Think smart and adapt:
meeting WCAG 2 without rebuilding
from scratch with Mike Ziemak
from Cut2Code.
Mike has been on quite a journey.
He's fond of new technologies,
computer games, and good music
after graduating from Conservatory,
he was working as a singer
and a music teacher.
Then spent a year working
as a creative director
for a boutique e-commerce photo
studio before falling in love
with WordPress.
I'm really excited
for today's session.
Please feel free to add your
questions in the Q&A tab in Slido.
We will answer them at the end and
then use, use the Ideas section
to chat with other attendees.
>> MIKE ZIEMAK: Hello everyone.
It's so great to have you.
My name is Mike and I'm a
project manager at Cut2Code.
Just let me quickly
introduce our company.
We are a web development agency
and we create WebPress sites
and Shopify stores.
We work with a broad range of
clients, starting from universities
and research companies from the US
chemistry noble prize laureates,
local communities, upcycling
brands, and NGOs fighting AIDS
and the world hunger.
The main aim of
this presentation is
to address some of the common
web accessibility issues
and to demonstrate the most
time and cost-efficient methods
of resolving them.
At some point of this
presentation, I would also like
to show you the difference
between the approach
we had even two years ago
and our current website
accessibility practices.
I will also demonstrate some
solutions that have been a point
of reference and a source
of inspiration for our work.
We'll also go through a couple of
the most popular WebPress sites
to pinpoint good
and a bad practices.
It is understandable that
people may not want to go
through various documentations, which
they provide an invaluable source
of knowledge, might seem daunting
for an average website owner.
This is why rather than
focusing on theory,
my goal was to present the
content in a practical way,
focusing on real-life examples
and explaining the reasons
behind using certain solutions.
In the course of this presentation,
I will be emphasizing the fact
that web accessibility is not
a one-time action or something
that you can simply check or
tick with a particular solution
like a plugin, but rather a
mindset, a one that needs
to be adopted and constantly
taken into consideration.
It's an investment, though,
not necessarily a financial one
that basic dividends and equal
opportunities for a larger group
of people.
As a result, this will
translate into increased traffic
and these people may have a
chance to become your clients
or customers.
Not to mention the fact
that we can avoid lawsuits,
which used to be individual
cases in the past,
but are now becoming more and more
popular, especially in the US.
Another benefit of adopting
accessibility standards
on your website is that it
simplifies the user experience
and makes it easier and more
pleasant to navigate this site.
As an old-school keyboard person
myself, I'm particularly inclined
to websites and web
apps that allow me
to navigate entirely
using the keyboard.
There are other benefits of
following accessibility standards
such as higher ranking
in search engines,
but I will not be covering this
in this presentation.
Okay,
so let me go to the takeaways.
What to know before choosing
an accessibility plugin?
Plugins, since most features
a WordPress site can offer are
usually achieved by the
use of certain commercial
or non-commercial plugins.
It's the very first thing that
comes into mind of a site owner
when thinking about implementing
accessibility solutions.
We'll feature some of the most
popular accessibility plugins
and discuss the core acceptance
criteria that they should meet.
You will learn what to pay attention
to in your choice of plugins
and how to differentiate
between good and bad ones.
What are differences
between bad practices
and accessibility-oriented
solutions?
Well, to give you a
hands-on experience,
we'll go through an example
of a badly optimized page
and see what we can do
to fix the accessibility
issues there.
This is also the section
where I'm going to show you
a couple of good examples on some
of the most popular WebPress sites.
For legal reasons,
for obvious reasons,
I would be showing you the
bad examples on live sites,
but unfortunately, it doesn't
really take much to find them
on the internet.
Now, as to the tips and
tricks on how to check
your current website
compliance with WCAG 2,
a thing on general
accessibility checkers.
There are various tools, both
commercial and non-commercial ones
that allow us to check our
score and assess the scale
of accessibility issues
and thus can help us plan
and prioritize specific actions.
Virtually,
all of these checkers will indicate
which issues should be prioritized
as not all of the issues are
of equal severity.
I'm sure that you're familiar
with the three compliance levels.
We distinguish three compliance
levels within the WCAG 2.
This is the A, AAA, and AAA,
and they are minimal, acceptable,
and optimal accessibility
thresholds respectively.
Unsurprisingly, you should act on
the most critical level A issues
before addressing AA or AAAA.
There's a caveat though.
One needs to acknowledge that
depending on the website content
or the layout of the design,
it may not always be possible
to achieve 90% and above score
in the highest AAA level.
Ways to improve accessibility
on the website or by yourself.
When adopting accessibility
best practices,
one needs to remember that
in installing a plugin
or hiring an agency to
code some functionalities
is not the ultimate solution.
There are some issues that
obviously cannot be resolved
without web development expertise
and it could even potentially
be dangerous if amended
by the site owners themselves.
There are certain steps that you
can and should take by yourself
to increase the
accessibility for all users.
While you may not be able to globally
change font sizes from pixels
to REM values or to properly
structure the HTML scaffolding,
you probably know the
content and the context
of your website more
than any developer.
Your contribution should
not be underestimated.
At the latest stage
of this presentation,
you will see that web
agency can actually give you
accessibility-optimized website
foundations, but the rest is
in your hands.
That's why it's so crucial
to remain ever-informed
about the best
practices and understand
what this accessibility
is all about.
Now, accessibility in real life,
we'll go through a case study.
In this part of the presentation,
we're going to showcase
a real-life example of a website
which has been transformed
with accessibility in mind.
Another digital agency, our
business partner reached out to us
as they needed to improve the
accessibility score measured
by site improve
on the client's website.
The acceptable threshold was 85,
as that is the industry standard
for education.
At the time,
the score was around 60, so well,
we roll out the sleeves,
did some research, and helped them
with achieving a more
than satisfactory score.
Actually, the screenshots I
will be showing are showing
a slightly lower score
than the current one
as I was preparing the
presentation at four.
I will run a check on
this site in real-time
to show you how much
it has improved.
Just within a couple of days,
you'll see that it's possible
to significantly improve
accessibility score
and avoid lawsuits without resulting
to rebuilding website entirely.
The pros and cons of accessibility
plugins, what the check before,
choosing one.
As to the pros and cons
of plugins in general,
these are usually the same
regardless of the plugins purpose.
The good thing about them
is that they provide a quick
and easy solution to one's
problems, but unfortunately,
they also come with the downsides,
like the reduced site performance
and lack of flexibility.
This is the list of plugins,
a couple of plugins that you can see
in the WordPress repository.
The first thought that arises when
we want to improve accessibility
without a lot of
expense are plugins,
and there are quite a few of them.
First of all, these are the
questions that we need to ask
before you want to utilize a plugin
to implement some
accessibility features.
The toolbar, how does it look,
and is it a keyboard navigable?
Let me draw your attention to the
toolbar as most of the plugins come
with one.
How does it look and is
it actually accessible?
What needs to test this
aspect of a plugin?
We need to make sure that the plugin
toolbars are properly visible,
they have correct color contrast,
and that they can be easily navigable
using the keyboard.
If your plugin doesn't meet
all of these requirements,
it's better to find another one,
and there's just plenty of them.
Another thing, what are its functions
when we are testing a plugin.
Another question is,
what are the toolbar's functions,
and are these features
working correctly?
Believe me or not, I tested various
plugins prior to this presentation,
and I must say that using some
of them was a complete nightmare.
Now think about customization.
Is it possible to customize
the plugin features
and can I extend its functionality?
Regarding the customization,
some of the plugins come
with extra options that you can
enable from the admin panel level.
The plugin settings
might give you an ability
to increase the phone size
globally or change the styling
of the toolbar itself,
which is particularly useful,
if let's say the
plugin toolbar is dark
and your website theme is using
dark colors as well or vice versa.
Another thing that you can do
with customizable plugins is,
for instance, you can adjust
the skip to content button.
Sometimes we have a situation
where the ID of the main section
on a page might be slightly
different than usual.
It's nice to have an option to
insert custom IDs so that the skip
to content button can
link to it correctly.
Okay, now we're going to-- How
we going to change the screen?
Thank you.
I'm using the sandbox
environment here.
Let's go to the admin
panel and plugins.
I'm going to show you just two
of these plugins, AccessibleWP -
Accessibility Toolbar.
This one, it's quite common.
It's quite popular.
Let's activate this plugin.
As you can see, there is this sky,
AccessibleWP disappeared here.
Let's go back to the homepage and
we can notice that there's a toolbar
here in the upper left corner.
I'm only using the keyboard
to navigate the site.
Let me refresh.
I'm only using the keyboard,
and actually, I'm clicking
through the entire admin bar,
so I can log out, I can skip
to content.
This skip to content button is
actually a native functionality
of this environment,
so it's not part of the plugin.
Logo homepage, bad example, empty
item, I'm scrolling through the menu.
I'm scrolling through the
links, some of the items.
Basically, I have to scroll
through the entire site.
I have to click through
the entire site to get
to this plugin navigation.
That's a huge or rather huge
disadvantage of this plugin
but it has some nice features
like keyboard navigation.
I'm not entirely sure
how effective it is.
I'm not really confident
that it's very useful
as sometimes implementing
keyboard navigation
is not that straightforward.
You can also disable animations.
You can increase contrast.
Actually, as you can see,
the navigation here is confusing
because this should be
on and actually it's off.
The visual indicator shows
that we are using a function
and actually we are not using it.
This is confusing.
Decrease text.
Readable font, I think doesn't
have any effect on the site.
Mark titles, highlight
things, and buttons.
This is cool.
In general, I would say that it's not
the best plugin that I've ever had
and it's definitely not
something that I would recommend
because of the fact that
it's not easily accessible.
That's deactivate the plugin.
Pages, plugins, deactivate,
and let's try another one.
Another plugin is One
Click Accessibility.
Let's go to the homepage.
There was a very subtle rectangle
here in the upper left corner.
Let me just refresh the site.
I press tab once and I have
the skip to content button,
which is an actual
functionality of this plugin.
It's not the original skip to
content button and the other tab.
One more tab further,
I'm in accessibility tool
so I can reach the
toolbar quite easily.
It's very useful.
I can click through
or scroll through,
click through these
functionalities, increase text.
I can do it repeatedly.
I can decrease text,
get back to the original one.
Grayscale,
high contrast comes in handy.
Negative contrast comes in handy.
Light background, links on the
line, it's very important.
As you can see,
it makes a huge difference.
It's a very important aspect
of implementing accessibility
on your website.
Links, you should never rely
on the color differences
between plain text and the links.
They should always have
some additional indication
that they are actually
links and not just text.
Readable font, either full and
reset to reset all the features.
I would say that it's
a really good plugin.
It's a really nice solution.
It's quite lightweight, very lean.
Maybe if I were really,
really want to exigent,
I would say that the toolbar
Icon is too subtle for my taste,
but still, within the reach
of two clicks, you can get
into the accessibility tools.
That's really cool.
That's a very useful plugin.
If you're looking for an easy
way, a quick, and free way
to improve your
website accessibility,
you should definitely go
for this one.
Okay.
let me deactivate the plugin.
Deactivate.
All right.
Let's get back to the slideshow.
Thank you.
A thing about good and bad
practices, dos and don'ts
of accessibility development.
In this section,
I'm going to show you a couple
of truly evident
accessibility errors.
I've created a sandbox site where
I will demonstrate bad practices
and show some tips and tricks on
how to fix them efficiently using
just the Gutenberg editor.
I can't say that I've had a vast
experience with heavyweight builders
like Elementor and the
like, but I'm pretty sure
that they should
provide similar options.
I'm quite confident that
you'll have basic functions
like alternative text
for images and so on.
We need to go back to the site.
Thank you.
Let me open the bad example here.
Well, let's take a look at
the hero image on this page.
The text reads, "Have yourself a
little coffee, you deserve it."
Beside the fact that it's cheesy
and that the color contrast
here is simply outrageous.
You may notice that nothing happens
when I'm trying to grab this text.
I'm trying to select the
text with the mouse cursor,
but nothing happens.
This is because the dreaded image
of text and it's a huge no-no
for any respectable content editor.
It's definitely something
that we should avoid.
If we scroll down further
a bit to the text section,
we'll notice that
there are no margins.
The letters adhere directly to the
viewport and it's just a torture
to read.
It's important to add some margins.
In WordPress, especially in
Gutenberg editor, you can do so
by inserting the text
into a container.
Sometimes it's not easily
noticeable, but I think in this case,
it's rather evident that the headings
don't have a correct hierarchy.
As you can see, the first one here
is a bit smaller, sample heading.
This sample heading
is a bit larger.
The correct hierarchy is H1 to H6,
without skipping any heading levels
in between, doesn't necessarily
mean that you have to use all
of the heading levels on
all of pages that you have.
If we are using, let's say,
H2 and H4, let's make sure
that there is an H3 in between.
Another good practice
for the headings,
is that there should be only one
H1 level heading for the page.
It's also important from the
reader's mode standpoint,
and it helps the screen readers
to render the sites properly.
Let's scroll to this one.
Well, another thing that should be
amended here, is the color contrast.
While these examples are flagrantly
illegible, even for people
with perfect vision, even if you're
a-- I don't know, a [inaudible],
there are some color issues here.
There are some color combinations,
which might look okay
at the first glance,
but will be unreadable by people
with various types
of color blindness.
This is why a color contrast
checker is an absolute must
before we add any
content to our website.
Now, for the upper case text, well,
not only that it's particularly
annoying in my opinion at least,
but it's also difficult to read.
I think we should definitely reduce
it to an absolute bare minimum.
If we really have to
use the uppercase text,
let's make sure that we use it
for emphasizing certain words,
not for emphasizing an entire
paragraph just like we have it here.
Another thing, if your copy
contains URLs, like we have here,
https://google.com, well, I can't
really do anything with the zero,
as it's not a correct link.
Make sure,
if your copy contains URLs,
you need to make sure that
they're not plain text,
they need the actual links so
that they can be easily accessed.
The same thing goes for email
addresses and the telephone numbers.
The email addresses, we need to make
sure that they are using the mailto:
prefix in the href value.
For the phone numbers,
these should be using a tel:
prefix in the href value as well.
Usually, the Gutenberg
editor can help us with this,
as it should turn URLs and email
addresses into actual links
without any prompt.
It just does it automatically.
The phone numbers though, they're
not rendered by default as links,
because also they have
slightly different formatting,
because of the country
codes and so on and so on.
They are usually not rendered as
links, and they might need more,
let's say,
manual input from the editors.
Even if we amend the link
here, okay, let's get busy.
Let's try to fix this page.
I'm going to Edit Page and
change some of these things.
First of all, I would get rid
of this image and replace it
with an actual image
without any text.
All right.
We have alternative text.
We can insert some
old text here like
"a coffee maker and
a cup of coffee".
What else?
We can add text over the image.
This is what Gutenberg
editor allows us to do.
Add text over the image.
I want to make it a heading.
Let's make it Heading 1.
"Have yourself a little coffee."
I think we could get
rid of the overlay.
We don't need it.
Sometimes it's useful, especially
if we have tons of various colors
in the image itself,
and we want to make sure
that the text is readable, then
we can apply some capacity filter
on that.
In this case, I don't think
I'm going to use it that much.
I'll just make sure that
dimensions are right.
The dimensions are
right and looks good.
It's not perfect, but it's definitely
readable, and its actual text,
so that's cool.
Online text left.
Another thing that I would like to
amend here would be the containers
or rather the lack of containers.
It's easy to do it.
I always use this list view,
so it helps me with determining
which parent and child
element I'm using.
Let's add a container here,
insert before container.
We can just Control-Command.
If you're using Mac,
Command-Shift, the entire text.
All of these blocks,
they are selected,
and we can just do Command-X
to cut them, and now we can
insert them into the container.
As you can see, we have the container
here, and inside this container,
we have the heading,
paragraph, and so on.
Everything that we need.
This should be helpful.
Just let me check if we have-- Let's
see if we have the margin sign.
It's good to check what it
looks like on the front end.
We are missing the heading here but
it's not relevant at the moment,
but we are definitely,
we've made some improvement,
as we can see that we have the
margins now, so it's easy to read,
but of course, what is not easy to
read here is the color contrast.
Let's make sure that we are
using the right color contrast.
Let's make it black.
Let's make this a H2.
Let's make it black as well.
What is it?
It's an H2 as well.
Let's make it H3.
It's not black.
Let's get back here,
and make sure that it's black.
It should be black now.
H6, H3 here, H6 here.
Well, that's a huge leap.
Let's make it an H4.
Let's change the text color here, and
let's make sure it's not upper case.
Switch the default.
Now it's a regular
text, normal text.
Let's make sure
that this https://google.com,
is an actual link.
I'm just going to click link,
and automatically it becomes a link
without manually inserting the URL.
It's quite intelligent.
Let's do the same for
the email address.
As you can see, Gutenberg
editor automatically added mail
to support@mailbox.com.
I don't think it's going to be
that easy with the phone number,
but let's give it a try.
It's not that easy.
Let me just copy with Command-C
and link tel, this is going
to be an actual telephone link.
Sample heading, well, H3.
We don't want a H3 here.
Let's make it an H4,
for instance, heading H6,
I think we are lacking
H5, so let's make it H5.
Same thing about the email here.
All right, now it looks much better
where we still have this guy here,
let's just make sure that we're
using an actual image and text
instead of an image of text.
I'm going to change this image.
If we really didn't need it, we don't
have to put the text on the image.
Should look much better now.
This was how we were able to--
Sorry, sample heading,
it get out of the container,
let me quickly fix it.
Let's put it into the container.
Let's make it H2.
In just a couple of steps, we were
able to improve the accessibility
of the site.
This is what it looks like now.
Let me get back to the slideshow.
Let's discuss a couple
of action items.
What can I do to fix it?
What can I do to fix the
accessibility issues?
First of all, you can add alternative
text to images is really important.
When are we adding
alternative texts,
it's important not to duplicate
the actual text, the actual copy.
Let's say that we have John Doe,
and we have a picture of John Doe.
Let's make sure not to use
John Doe as the alt text
because the actual text will also
say John Doe so we have John Doe,
John Doe, read by the screen readers,
and that's kind of confusing.
We should make sure that we
are descriptions and subtitles
to each video.
Actually, you can do so with
help of most of the video tools
like YouTube, Vimeo, and so on.
They offer all the services
offer over this functionality.
Make sure that the only
files are subtitled.
This one is pretty
self-explanatory.
It's pretty much the same as with
the videos, and check the structure
of the headings.
This is what we just done,
we've made sure that we have coming
from H1 to H6 or to H4
but we're not skipping
any of the heading levels.
What else can you do by yourself?
Choose a font size
that is easy to read.
We want to make sure that the font
size that we have is easy to read.
Refrain from inserting
images as links.
It can also be confusing for people
who are using screen readers,
and make sure you're not using
an illegible font family,
that's a rather important one.
If you go to any of the site
checkers like Siteimprove,
you can check what font
families are recommended
and what font families are
not recommended and take care
of the color contrast.
As I said previously,
the color contrast checkers
are an absolute must
whenever we insert,
whenever we add new
content to our website.
All right.
The thing on the
accessibility checkers.
Before we jump into this
subject, just a short caveat,
from my experience,
if your goal is to make sure
that your website is only
compliant with the standards
to avoid lawsuits, you'll probably
be fine with using just one
of them.
Having said that,
if you really want
to improve the website
accessibility, it makes more sense
to compare the results of
at least two of these tools,
as they will be slightly different.
One tool might pinpoint
a specific error
and another one might
just completely ignore.
The first one that comes into
mind, I have the list here,
so we have a list of a couple
of accessibility checkers,
we have Siteimprove, IBM Equal Access
Toolkit, Wave, and QualityLogic.
Siteimprove, it's an excellent tool,
which provides very default insights.
I've used it on my
couple of occasions,
and I can't recommend
it highly enough.
One needs to keep in mind
that it's a commercial service
so if you've got to have your
website checked for free,
there are some
alternatives to that.
Lighthouse accessibility
checker comes in a bundle
with Google PageSpeed Insights.
It will show you the most critical
errors, as overall quite lenient
that compared to other
accessibility checkers.
I personally never use it
as a point of reference
for improving website
accessibility.
It's nice to know that
you can also use it.
Another one on the list is
coming from WebAccessibility.com,
and its main functionality
is just basic score check
but they provide some
commercial browser extensions.
Interestingly,
they have tools that can help you
with software development
lifecycle, so you can integrate them
into your workflow, if you're
using tools for testing automation,
like Selenium or Cypress,
this is something definitely worth
developers' attention.
Another thing that comes
into mind in regard
to the free alternatives,
is the accessibilitychecker.org,
which provides a rather detailed
report on the exact elements.
The cool thing is that
you can actually choose
which standards you'd like to
follow depending on your location.
This is particularly
useful if your goal is
to make sure that your website
is observing legal regulations
in a specific country.
My personal favorite
is WAVE by WebAIM.
I'm not even sure if there's a
commercial option of this tool,
because the free version
provides so much insight,
I've never really
given it a thought.
You can generate a detailed live
report which allows you to interact
with it in real-time,
you can switch to other pages,
it pinpoints all errors, warnings,
ARIA attributes, and so on,
and so on.
I'm just being conscious of
time, we're running out of time,
but so I'm not going to go through
all of these accessibility checkers.
Let's just quickly discuss
the benefits of things.
They clearly show you what needs
to be fixed, at least some,
if not most of them, they show
you what needs to be fixed,
they usually show
you their priority.
They also provide
suggestions on how to fix it.
whenever you have an issue,
you can expand the issue,
they have some dropdowns and
they can point you directly
to the W3 reference where
you can see the documentation
and you can check what
exactly needs to be fixed.
They also help you with understanding
why certain things are considered
as errors.
It's also nice to have in
terms of educating yourself
and staying other informed.
Well, that goes without
saying they're compatible
with the latest WCAG requirements.
Sometimes using
accessibility checkers,
like running a full website
check would be an overkill.
If we want to check certain color
combinations, we can just opt
for a contrast checker like
the WebAIM contrast checker
or Siteimprove contrast checker.
I think we have the
site of group one here.
As you can see, the ratio is
below 3:1, all of us will be held.
We have the ratio here, 2.13:1,
and we're just failing all
of the standards, we're not
meeting any of the standards.
In this case, the ratio is 5.63 to
1, and actually, as you can see,
we are almost, we're meeting
almost all of the standards.
We have AA for normal text.
We are not meeting the
AAA for normal text.
We're meeting AA for large text, AAA
for large text, and AA for graphics.
All right.
I'm just being conscious of time.
Let me proceed to the case study.
One of the universities in the
US reached out to our clients,
our agency clients
as they needed help
with making their website
compliant with WCAG 2.
They emphasized that the score
needed to be 85 points or above
to make sure that the
website was fully accessible
and to avoid legal actions
be taken against them.
This is a chart,
let me show you the chart.
This is a chart of the score history,
the score and the issue history.
When we started our work,
the overall score was 66,
and there were several critical
A-level issues on the site,
which as you can imagine, made it
virtually impossible to be read
with assistive technologies.
I'm just going to quickly list
some of the issues that we had.
Some of the pages didn't have any
titles or they were extremely long.
Actually, the page titles
are quite easily resolved
with workers basically to
set the main website title.
You just go to the general settings
and you have the respective fuel
for that.
The same thing with
individual pages.
The very first heading of a page,
at least in Gutenberg editor.
The very first heading of a
page is an actual HTML title.
Also, there are no aria
labels to use and well,
that makes it very difficult
if not impossible at all
to navigate website of
using assistive technologies
and many images.
Were lacking old text,
so that's also a big no-no.
The power contrast
needed to be improved.
There was some places where
we had very low contrast
and it was just difficult.
It was fairly readable.
When we finished working on the
site, the score was 87
and then came the new content,
which introduced some minor issues,
and reduced the score to 84.
This was a very valuable lesson
for us as it proved it's crucial
to stay ever-informed
about best practices.
Our reaction was, first of
all, to make some revisions and
to fix the issues,
and then to educate the client on
how to keep the score high.
At the moment, the site improved
score is slightly above 90,
and the A and AA level issues have
been reduced to the bare minimum
because of the design layout
and also some complex features,
it wasn't possible to
squeeze the maximum of it
and to entirely get rid
of AAA level issues.
This story clearly shows that
with the right tools and attitude,
you can transform an average
site into a perfectly accessible
and optimized website.
>> JAY: All right.
Thank you, Mike.
This has been great.
We have a couple of questions.
This one came in twice.
Does the grouping in containers
have an effect on an accessibility
or the behavior of screen readers?
>> MIKE: Well, I think it's important
to keep the right structure.
Let's say the-- so how
do you mean grouping?
>> JAY: I think when you were
looking at the, let me see
if there was any
additional information.
Oh, that's all I have,
just repeated twice.
>> MIKE: All right.
If the person asking the
question could elaborate on this,
I'll be more than happy
to answer this question.
Generally saying, well, the more
complex the container structure is,
the more difficult it is for the
editors to keep it accessible, right?
We should definitely,
I think simplicity is the key here.
If we can do something in
an easy way, in a simple,
straightforward way,
let's just opt for it.
>> JAY: Then another
question about plugins.
Are some plugins better for scale?
Do some work better for smaller
sites and one or two operators,
or maybe some work better for large
sites with multiple operators?
>> MIKE: Sorry.
How do you mean operators?
>> JAY: Again,
I'm just reading as it's provided.
>> MIKE: Oh.
Yes, I think, well, with the
plugins, I think if they are simple
and they are accessible,
then there is really no reason to.
>> JAY: Oh.
Just to clarify [crosstalk]
>> MIKE: Operators as users.
>> JAY: There we go.
Okay, that makes sense.
All right.
I think also from the site
performance perspective,
it's better to keep the plugins
as simple as possible, right?
If using, let's say a heavyweight
plugin, which might be useful
for implementing some of the
features on your website,
if it's a complex one, you need
to take into account the fact
that it's going to affect
the site performance.
It's also something that
we need to keep in mind.
>> JAY: Right.
Then we have a couple questions
about the accessibility checkers.
The first one is just, "Are there
some checkers that are better
for bigger websites
versus smaller?"
>> MIKE: Yes,
that's a good question.
I would say that there are, basically
if you are using the free checkers,
you are just running a check
against a single URL usually, right?
It just takes more, let's
say, manual input to use,
to enter all the euros and
make sure that all the pages
that you're interested in that all
the pages are accessible, right?
Whereas if you use
commercial services,
which most of these
plugins really offer,
if you use commercial services, well,
you basically have better support.
You have a full site audit,
so you actually have people
who are running the check for you.
It's a matter of compromise
between doing a lot of manual work
versus paying some money
for the check, right?
>> JAY: Then there was
a comment referring
to the accessibility checkers
that you mentioned.
They're saying,
"Given that only about 30%
of accessibility issues
are testable by automation,
how do you claim that a test
with the checker can allow you
to reach that WCAG compliance?"
>> MIKE: I totally agree with that.
That's absolutely true.
Well, we need to realize that
there are certain limitations
to these checkers, right?
They are not as much as the
developers of these checkers may try.
They're not intelligent at all.
We should always rely on someone who
has more, someone who has expertise.
We should refer to
the documentation.
There are tons of educational
materials that you can read
on the internet, and I think that
they provide much more insight
than just running a check on
the website and then you think
that you are done.
That's completely not true.
I think that's the most
important factor here.
The human contribution, right?
It's absolutely essential.
I personally know a lot of sites,
I've been doing a lot of research
on some of the most popular
sites, and I know a lot of sites
which have tremendous scores,
which have really great scores,
like above 90 on most of
the accessibility checkers,
but they have basic,
really, really basic issues
with keyboard navigation.
We shouldn't only rely on
the checkers themselves,
and we shouldn't treat them
as an absolute source of truth
and a point of reference.
It's a nice addition
and it's useful.
I would say it's useful primarily
if your goal is to avoid lawsuits,
just to get a certificate,
to show, to demonstrate
that your website is
compliant, right?
There is a huge difference between
compliance and accessibility itself.
I also know sites which
are super accessible,
which have tons of functionalities,
all the aria labels,
descriptions keyboard
navigation, and so on and so on.
At the same time, they have
a score of 70 which is okay
but nothing's spectacular.
I think it's super important.
>> JAY: Right.
Well, we are out of time but if
you have an answer to this question
in 20 seconds,
do you recommend a particular plugin
for eCommerce sites?
>> MIKE: It would depends.
If you mean WooCommerce,
then I would say that the plugin
that I was showcasing
would be okay.
Shopify, there are tons of different
platforms of eCommerce platforms.
There is no one
straight answer to that.
Sorry.
>> JAY: Not a problem.
All right.
Well, thank you for the
session, and thank you everyone
for attending the
session with Mike Ziemak.
You can continue this
conversation in the chat or
on social media using the
#WPA11yDay and #WP2022.
We appreciate it.
If you do go to
WPaccessibility.day/feedback
to provide anonymous feedback for
our speakers on their presentation.
I believe there's also a way for
you to enter in for a free t-shirt.
Please stay tuned for our Lightning
Talks: Round 2 coming up next
with Robert Jacobi, Nick Croft,
and Katie Gleason, that will be
at 5:00 PM.
While you're waiting, please don't
forget to visit our sponsors' pages
to grab some virtual swag
and enter for a chance
to win some great prizes.
Thank you and we'll see you
right here after the break.